I have to ask you hardware engineer working on your own networks.
Now what's consciousness. What the hell is that thing? Is that,
is that just some little weird quirk of our particular, uh,
competing device or is it something fundamental that we really need to crack
open it for to, to, uh, build like good computers?
Do you ever think about consciousness? Like why? It feels like something?
I know it's, it's, it's really weird. So yeah.
I mean, everything about it's weird first is to half a second behind reality,
right? It's a post-hoc narrative about what happened.
You've already done stuff by the time you're conscious of it.
And your consciousness generally is a single-threaded thing,
but we know your brain is 10 billion neurons running some crazy
parallel thing. And there's a really big sorting thing going on there.
It also seems to be really reflective in the sense that
you create a space in your head. Like, like we don't really see anything, right?
Like photons hit your eyes.
It gets turned into signals that goes through multiple layers, the neurons,
you know, like I'm so curious, the, you know,
that looks glassy and that looks not glassy. And like,
like how the resolution of your vision is so high,
you have to go through all this processing where for most of it,
it looks nothing like vision, like,
like there's no theater in your mind. Right? So we,
we have a world in our heads.
We're literally just isolated behind our sensors,
but we can look at it, speculate about it,
speculated about alternatives, problem solve. What if, you know,
there's so many things going on and that process is lagging
reality.
And it's single threaded,
even though the underlying thing is like massively parallel.
So it's, it's so curious. So imagine you're building an AI computer.
If you wanted to replicate humans while you'd have huge rays of neural networks
and apparently only six or seven deep, which Claris,
they don't even remember seven numbers. So I think we can upgrade that a lot.
Right.
And then somewhere in there you would train the network to create basically the
world that you live in. Right.
So T tell stories to itself about the world that has proceeding.
Well, create this great, the world,
tell stories in the world and then have many dimensions of,
you know, like side to it. Like we have an emotional structure,
like we have a biological structure, and that seems hierarchical too. Like,
like if you're hungry, dominate your thinking,
if you're mad at dominates your thinking like,
and we don't know if that's important to consciousness or not,
but it certainly disrupts, you know, intrudes in the consciousness.
So there's lots of structure to that. And we'd like to dwell on the past,
we like to think about the future. We like to imagine we'd like to fantasize,
right?
And the somewhat circular observation of that is the thing we call
consciousness. Now, if you created a computer system that did all things great,
worldviews creates a future alternative histories, you know,
dwelled on past events, you know, accurately or semi accurately, you know?
Well, cautiousness just spring up, like natural.
How would that feel? Look and feel conscious to you. Like,
do you see off just to be external observer?
Do you think the thing that looks cautious is cautious? Like, do you, uh,
again, this is like an engineering kind of question, I think because, uh,
like if we want to engineer consciousness,
is it okay to engineer something that just looks cautious or is a,
is there a difference between.
Consciousness because it's a super effective way to manage our affairs?
Well, it gives us the planning system. You know, we have a huge amount of stuff.
Like when we're talking,
like the reason that we can talk really fast as we're modeling each other a
really high level detail, cautiousness is required for that. Right. And well,
all of those components together manifest consciousness, right?
So if we make intelligent beings that we want to interact with that, we're like,
you know, wondering what they're thinking, you know, you know,
looking for the scene, um, you know, when they interact with them, they,
they're interesting, surprising, you know, fascinating, you know,
they will probably be, feel conscious like we do. And we'll,
we'll perceive them as conscious.
I don't know why not, but you never know.